1.Explain how can create a backup and copy files in Jenkins?
Jenkins has a backup plugin which can used to backup critical configuration settings related to Jenkins. Follow the steps given below to have a backup in place.

Step 1 − Click on Manage Jenkins and choose the ‘Manage Plugins’ option.
Step 2 − In the available tab, search for ‘Backup Plugin’. Click On Install without Restart. Once done, restart the Jenkins instance
Step 3 − Now when you go to Manage Jenkins, and scroll down you will see ‘Backup Manager’ as an option. Click on this option.
Step 4 − Click on Setup.
Step 5 − Here, the main field to define is the directory for your backup. Ensure it’s on another drive which is different from the drive where your Jenkins instance is setup. Click on the Save button.
Step 6 − Click on the ‘Backup Hudson configuration’ from the Backup manager screen to initiate the backup.
The next screen will show the status of the backup.To recover from a backup, go to the Backup Manager screen, click on Restore Hudson configuration. The list of backup’s will be shown, click on the appropriate one to click on Launch Restore to begin the restoration of the backup.

on master or slave node.
Select "Copy data to workspace" in the Build Environment (list of BuildWrappers).
Enter the path to a data storage directory. All data in this directory will be copied to workspace (only data, not a directory itself). ...
Option "Make files executable". ...
Option "Delete files after build".

2. Mention what are the advantages of Jenkins?
Advantages of Jenkins include:
It is an open-source tool with great community support.
It is easy to install.
It has 1000+ plugins to ease your work. ...
It is free of cost.
It is built with Java and hence, it is portable to all the major platforms.

3. Mention what are the commands you can use to start Jenkins manually?
To restart Jenkins manually, you can use either of the following commands (by entering their URL in a browser): (jenkins_url)/safeRestart - Allows all running jobs to complete. New jobs will remain in the queue to run after the restart is complete.

4.What is the requirement for using Jenkins?
To use Jenkins you require: A source code repository which is accessible, for instance, a Git repository. A working build script, e.g., a Maven script, checked into the repository.

5. Mention what are the two components Jenkins is mainly integrated with?
Jenkins is typically integrated with these two components: Version Control systems like Git and SVN (Apache Subversion) Build tools like Maven.

6. Explain how you can move or copy Jenkins from one server to another?
Please follow this procedure:
Install the correct version of Jenkins on new machine. ...
Migrate the startup Java arguments from the old instance to the new one. ...
Stop the old instance to prevent conflicts when the new one is started.
Copy $JENKINS_HOME to the Destination Controller.
Check (and edit, if needed) config.

7. .Explain how you can deploy a custom build of a core plugin?
Follow these steps:
Stop Jenkins.
Copy the custom HPI to $Jenkins_Home/plugins.
Delete the previously expanded plugin directory.
Make an empty file called <plugin>. hpi. pinned.
Start Jenkins.

8. Explain what is continuous integration?
Continuous Integration is a software development process where a code is continuously tested after a commit to ensure there are no bugs. In large teams, many developers work on the same code base. Thus, any of the multiple commits can have a bug.

9. Explain how you can set up Jenkins job?
Below is a step by step process to create job in Jenkin.
Step 1) Login to Jenkins. ...
Step 2) Create New Item. ...
Step 3) Enter Item details. ...
Step 4) Enter Project details. ...
Step 5) Enter repository URL. ...
Step 6) Tweak the settings. ...
Step 8) Build Source code. ...
Step 9) Check the status.

10. Mention some of the useful plugins in Jenkin?
Some of the plugins in Jenkins include:
Maven 2 project.
Amazon EC2.
Copy artifact.
Join.
HTML publisher.
Green Balls.

11.Mention what is Jenkins?
Jenkins is an open-source free automation tool used to build and test software projects. The tool makes it painless for developers to integrate changes to the project. Jenkins' primary focus is to keep track of the version control system and initiate and monitor a build system if there are any changes.

12. Explain how you can clone a Git repository via Jenkins?
There are two ways to clone the project(repository) from Github. Create a new Jenkins job called 'Clone-with-https', move to the “Source Control Management” setting, and choose “Git” options if you cannot see the Git options that mean the 'GitHub' plugin wasn't installed in the Jenkins machine.-
